# Init

## Project Setup

```bash
npm init -y
```

Which will create a `package.json` file.

For typescript, we need to change scripts in `package.json` to:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "build": "tsc index.ts",
    "build:watch": "npm run build -- --watch"
  }
```

then we can simply run `npm run build` to compile the typescript file `index.ts` to `index.js`. We can also run `npm run build:watch` to watch the changes in `index.ts` and compile it automatically.

`--` is used to separate the arguments for `npm` and `run build` command, which will pass `--watch` to `tsc` command. `tsc --watch` will automatically compile the typescript file when it is changed.

## npm install / npm i

```bash
npm i -D typescript ts-loader
npm i @types/node
```

`-D` is short for `--save-dev`, which will add `typescript` to `devDependencies` in `package.json`, rather than `dependencies`.

The kits in `devDependencies` are only used for development, and will not be installed when the project is deployed. As we only need `typescript` to compile the typescript file to javascript file, we can put it in `devDependencies`.

As for `@types/node`, if our code won't be a lib or a module, we can put it in `devDpendencies`. If our code will be a lib or a module, we can put it in `dependencies`.

## tsconfig.json

Even if there may only be a pair of '{}' in `tsconfig.json`, tsc --watch will still compile the typescript file to a javascript file.

### strict mode

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "strict": true
  }
}
```

`strict` is a shortcut for enabling all strict type-checking options.

Foe example, code like this will cause an error:

```typescript
function a(): string {
    return null;
}
```

When not in strict mode, the `null` or `undefined` will be automatically converted to `any` type, but in strict mode, they will have to belong to a certain type.
You'll need to add `| null` to the return type:

```typescript
function a(): string | null {
    return null;
}
```

